How many people have reached enlightenment
through these processes that you offer?
So he wants an assurance
does this really work?
Many
many many,
but at the same time
realization is one thing
understanding the mechanics of
what life is is another thing,
that needs learning that's like study that's
like understanding this one this box or this box
you have to understand realizing
my nature is a different dimension
learning to fix this one is different isn't it?
Can Gautam Buddha fix this tape recorder
He cannot fix it isn't it?
A local guy who has been trained
for six months to do this job, he can just fix it.
So this is a different area altogether.
So similarly the body is a different area altogether,
realization spiritual dimension of realization
is different,
fixing the body is different.
But once somebody is fully realized and naturally,
there is nothing to hold on to the body because
there's nothing to stay in the body.
There's no stuff to stay,
so he has to learn tricks to
keep the body.
Learning those tricks will take time
because that is a learning process
realization is instantaneous
learning is not instantaneous one
has to learn isn't it?
Because of this we break down many people in the last step.
Because we want their physical bodies
to run their course.
Otherwise I would have people popping around
me every day,
handling these bodies will
become a big problem
I don't want to have those bodies
on my hand in today's society
This is like you know what's
a snake in the ladder game?
The snake in the ladder game
if you put through the dice
six means you hit the ladder
zoom went up
then you put two you hit the snake
doom you came down this process goes
on and on some people never make
it it just goes on and on and on.
But if you manage to reach to the last line
after that there are no snakes anymore
all you have to do is one, one, one, one, one,
it's just a question of time.
But there's no question of falling down.
We have pushed lots of people to that stage
there's no question of them falling down,
but they're not enlightened they can be as stupid as
anybody but they can't fall down.
Because now the all they have to do is
just keep throwing the dice one,
one is not going to come because of your skill
it comes once in a way you just wait
one, one, one, one, one,
when you put the last one it's done
but the important thing is
no more snakes to swallow you down
no more snakes to tempt you with the apple
This is just like that if you just
drop this one calculation what can i get
after that no more snakes it is just
a question of time you will get that.
In everything in your life what can I get is
dropped means you will become
really boundless and absolutely compassionate
in your life there is no other way
you just have to drop this one simple calculation
because
that is the key to your whole mind
and your mental process
that is the key to all the activity that's
happening in the mind
you just pull the plug it's over.
So we have many like that,
we don't name them.
You don't go looking for them they may be in
most odd places,
they're not the people you think they may
be most probably but there are many people
who are in that kind of place who are in a certain way.
So if we allow people to go beyond a certain band
either they leave the body or
they cannot you know
maintain their normal course
of what they're doing.
So we always pick them down on the last step,
so that they enjoy a certain
blissfulness they have a certain balance
and they become useful.
They are like castrated bulls
I'm using a very negative example.
I always use negative examples so
that your imagination doesn't go wild.
Okay.
So that you can tie them to the cart
and make them work and
all this so that they can be useful to the world
because anyway the physical body is intact
realization has come within I feel we must put it to use.
The world was all in great bliss
this was not necessary would just pop them.
But the world is not like that, world is in huge
misery when it's like this i feel we must harness it.
Even if it means a certain limitation
because anyway his realization is assured.
He's reached a point where there's no
going back there's no falling back anymore
so let him serve for some time isn't it?
Is it okay?
You don't like it?
I think it's okay.
Lot of people wouldn't approve this,
but i think it's all right because
it's very essential in the world.
The world was doing great
this wouldn't be necessary.
The world is not doing great,
human beings are not doing great,
you know they're going through enormous nonsense.
If we create more and more people like
this then definitely it'll be a better place.
So as these methods worked
hugely, wonderfully.
Now
how many people got there here?
Many, but we don't allow them to go there because
then you will create a lots of bodies the way
our people go because it's a very short span
without any sadhana they're jumping like this their energies
why people are jumping I want you to understand.
Something within you has
overtaken your body.
the body is growing at a certain pace,
body is in a certain level of evolution
but the energy has evolved much more so the
body cannot hold it's trying to jump out.
That's all that's happening,
if the body also, if you worked sufficiently to create a body
also which is suitable for this kind of energy
then you would simply sit.
No matter how intense this gets,
but the necessary body is not there
that means you have mutated you did not evolve.
Evolution would take a long time
we are doing mutation that's why
so much jumping around
people are advancing too fast
so we have to pick
them down otherwise they'll blow.
When we start the process itself we peg you down
not later, well suppose you forget
there's no such thing.
There is no such thing.
Nobody will leave accidentally,
it cannot happen.
With Viji it happened because we
allowed it because
the nature of the consecration was such
we allowed that aspect,
otherwise we couldn't do that kind of work.
So now also we're doing certain things
which involve that kind of energy and
involvement
but
when we do such things we are making sure the
people involved have the necessary discipline,
enormous discipline,
an absolute, absolute obedience
this moment they're doing something
if it is going to a certain point if I say no.
It's no, no question about why,
how, this, that,
only then you can take that risk
there are people they're wonderful people
like that we are doing certain things now